it; for it is what God wants for us and, as St.
Paul says, no created thing, whether of time,
space or spirit, can separate us from His love.

But do we truly want it? At bottom — yes,
we do, for it is the end for which we were made
and without which we cannot be happy or com-
plete, “In every soul that shall be saved,”
said the Lady Julian of Norwich, “there is a
godly will that never assented to sin, nor ever
shall,” ‘and it is this will which has to be set
free so that it may become united to God,

       * * *

 There remains, however, the terrible possibility
that the continual indulgence of the false self
may so weaken the true God-ward will that it
becomes impotent, so that, in the moment of
death which is the moment of final choice, the
soul will shrink away from the presence of
God and refuse beatitude. If so, we shall have
what we have willed to have. We shall have
to live for ever with the sinful self that we
have chosen; and this is called Hell.

 God sends nobody to Hell; only a wicked
ignorance can suggest that He would do to us
the very thing He died to save us from. But
He has so made us that what in the end we
choose, that in the end we shall have. If we
enter the state called Hell, it is because we have
willed to do so.

 Neither can He force any soul into beatitnde
against its will; for He has nothing but Him-
self to give it, and it is precisely the light of
His presence which the self-centred soul can
know only as burning and judgment. So the
Lady Julian said that in her visions she “saw
no Hell but Sin,” and St. Catherine of Genoa
said that the fire of the torment was the light
of God as experienced by those who reject it.

      * * *

Christians believe that “in the end of the world”
God will make “a new heaven and a new earth,”
and that the body will then be raised from the
dead and be united to the soul, so that the whole
man will be restored in his completeness. About
this we know very little. The only resurrection
body of which we have any knowledge is that of

