
 Christians believe that our universe of space
and time is, similarly, a made thing. It is
quite “real” so far as it goes, but its reality is
dependent on that of its Maker, who is alone
real in His own right. They also believe that
the soul of Man has been so made that it is
capable of entering into the true Reality which
we call “Heaven” or “the presence of God.”
So that when we die, it is not as though the
characters and action of the book were “con-
tinued in our next” like a serial; it is as
though they came out from the book to partake
of the real existence of their author.

If this real existence involves anything at all
corresponding to “time” and “space,” these
do not coincide with ours in any way, and we
can have no conception of them. We call them
“eternity” and “infinity” simply to mark
their total unlikeness to anything that we
experience; and when we speak of God's
“time” as an “eternal present” we mean to
exclude every idea of duration in OUR time.




 All this was understood and insisted on by
instructed Christians up to the end of the
Middle Ages (e.g. by Boethius in the sixth
century and Dante in the fourteenth). It was
only after the Reformation and the Renaissance
of Learning that childishly literal notions of a
localised Heaven extended in measurable time
began to creep out of popular mythology into
the minds of educated people.

 Accordingly, Christians do not very much
care for the term “survival,” which suggests a
continuation along the old lines of space and
time. It is less misleading to speak of coming
out of time into eternity. Heaven is the abid-
ing contemplation of, and union with, that total
perfection which we call “God,” who is the
unconditioned Reality containing and uphold-
ing the conditioned realities of the space-time
universe which He made.

It is in this sense that we speak of Christi-
anity as an “other-worldly” religion — not
because it denies the significance and import-
ance of the created universe, but because it
places the centre of reality not within that uni-
verse, but in God. Our senses, assisted by the

