
sciences; teach us to follow “the story" from
inside, and to see it as an orderly sequence of
evénts; and as such it, will appear to be a
self-contained network of cause and effect. But
the REAL cause of those events — the intention in
the mind of the author — can only be very dimly
inferred from the data within the story, unless
the author should choose. to reveal himself by
becoming a character within his own creation;
and this, of course, Christians believe that our
Maker has done. 

But in this life, as T. S. Eliot has said,
“Human kind cannot bear very much reality,
We have to be trained to encounter it.” It is
not merely that, being finite, we cannot appre-
hend reality, but that, being sinful, we are un-
willing to accept it, For, to accept reality, it is
necessary to acknowledge that the source and
centre of our being is not in ourselves, but in
God. Sin is the self-sufficiency which urges us
to reject this idea and to delude ourselves with
the flattering fantasy that Man’s being is centred
in himself — that he can be “as God.” Thus our
outlook is not only finite, but violently distorted,
and evils are called into existence — evils which,



though from the point of view of eternal reality
they are seen to be lies and illusions, yet within
the created frame of things are, unhappily, quite
as real as anything else in the material universe.

Our “training” to encounter reality is thus
made much more difficult by our insistence on
clinging to a false idea of the self. We have
not only everything to learn, but also much to
unlearn. The will and judgment need to be
purged as well as strengthened before we can
become possessed of our true selves and endure
to enter the heavenly presence of God, where
we shall “know even as we are known.” This
training is the work of time, and its aim is the
freeing of the will and judgment from those
errors and perversions which render it incapable
of facing the Divine Reality. 

If the training is not completed at the time
of death, it will have to be completed after
death; that is why any attempt to hold the
spirits “earthbound" — by “calling them up”
at seances, of even by importunate and posses-
sive grief — is to do them wrong by delaying
their entry into beatitude. But sooner or later,
if beatitude is what we truly want, we shall get

